doc/api/resources/submissions.rst, before:

.. spelling:: de

Submissions
===========

Resource description
--------------------

The submission resource contains the following public fields:

.. rst-class:: rest-resource-table

===================================== ========================== =======================================================
Field                                 Type                       Description
===================================== ========================== =======================================================
code                                  string                     A unique, alphanumeric identifier, also used in URLs
speakers                              list                       A list of speaker objects, e.g. ``[{"name": "Jane", "code": "ABCDEF", "biography": "", "avatar": ""}]``
title                                 string                     The submission's title
submission_type                       string                     The submission type (e.g. "talk", "workshop")
track                                 string                     The track this talk belongs to (e.g. "security", "design", or ``null``)
state                                 string                     The submission's state, one of "submitted", "accepted", "rejected", "confirmed"
abstract                              string                     The abstract, a short note of the submission's content
description                           string                     The description, a more expansive description of the submission's content
duration                              number                     The talk's duration in minutes, or ``null``
do_not_record                         boolean                    Indicates if the speaker consent to recordings of their talk
is_featured                           boolean                    Indicates if the talk is show in the schedule preview / sneak peek
content_locale                        string                     The language the submission is in, e.g. "en" or "de"
slot                                  object                     An object with the scheduling details, e.g. ``{"start": …, "end": …, "room": "R101"}`` if they exist.
image                                 string                     The submission image URL
answers                               list                       The question answers given by the speakers. Available if the requesting user has organiser permissions.
===================================== ========================== =======================================================

Endpoints
---------

.. http:get:: /api/events/{event}/submissions

   Returns a list of all submissions the authenticated user/token has access to, or
   all confirmed, publicly scheduled submissions for unauthenticated users.
   For a list of accepted or confirmed submissions, authenticated users may choose
   to use the ``/api/events/{event}/talks`` endpoint instead.

   **Example request**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      GET /api/events/sampleconf/submissions HTTP/1.1
      Accept: application/json, text/javascript

   **Example response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Vary: Accept
      Content-Type: application/json

      {
        "count": 1,
        "next": null,
        "previous": null,
        "results": [
          {
            "code": "ABCDE",
            "speakers": [{"name": "Jane", "code": "DEFAB", "biography": "A speaker", "avatar": "avatar.png"}],
            "title": "A talk",
            "submission_type": "talk",
            "state": "confirmed",
            "abstract": "A good talk.",
            "description": "I will expand upon the properties of the talk, primarily its high quality.",
            "duration": 30,
            "do_not_record": true,
            "is_featured": false,
            "content_locale": "en",
            "slot": {
              "start": "2017-12-27T10:00:00Z",
              "end": "2017-12-27T10:30:00Z",
              "room": "R101"
            },
            "image": "submission.png",
            "answers": [
              {
                "id": 1,
                "question": {"id": 1, "question": {"en": "How much do you like green, on a scale from 1-10?"}, "required": false, "target": "submission", "options": []},
                "answer": "11",
                "answer_file": null,
                "submission": "ABCDE",
                "person": null,
                "options": []
              }
             ]
          }
        ]
      }

   :param event: The ``slug`` field of the event to fetch
   :query page: The page number in case of a multi-page result set, default is 1
   :query q: Search through submissions by title and speaker name
   :query submission_type: Filter submissions by submission type
   :query state: Filter submission by state

.. http:get:: /api/events/(event)/submissions/{code}

   Returns information on one event, identified by its slug.

   **Example request**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      GET /api/events/sampleconf/submissions/ABCDE HTTP/1.1
      Accept: application/json, text/javascript

   **Example response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Vary: Accept
      Content-Type: application/json

      {
        "code": "ABCDE",
        "speakers": [{"name": "Jane", "code": "DEFAB", "biography": "A speaker", "avatar": "avatar.png"}],
        "title": "A talk",
        "submission_type": "talk",
        "state": "confirmed",
        "abstract": "A good talk.",
        "description": "I will expand upon the properties of the talk, primarily its high quality.",
        "duration": 30,
        "do_not_record": true,
        "is_featured": false,
        "content_locale": "en",
        "slot": {
          "start": "2017-12-27T10:00:00Z",
          "end": "2017-12-27T10:30:00Z",
          "room": "R101"
        },
        "image": "submission.png",
        "answers": [
          {
            "id": 1,
            "question": {"id": 1, "question": {"en": "How much do you like green, on a scale from 1-10?"}, "required": false, "target": "submission", "options": []},
            "answer": "11",
            "answer_file": null,
            "submission": "ABCDE",
            "person": null,
            "options": []
          }
         ]
      }

   :param event: The ``slug`` field of the event to fetch
   :param code: The ``code`` field of the submission to fetch
   :statuscode 200: no error
   :statuscode 401: Authentication failure
   :statuscode 403: The requested event does not exist **or** you have no permission to view it.

Commit message:

[doc] Document new slot_count field

doc/api/resources/submissions.rst, after:

.. spelling:: de

Submissions
===========

Resource description
--------------------

The submission resource contains the following public fields:

.. rst-class:: rest-resource-table

===================================== ========================== =======================================================
Field                                 Type                       Description
===================================== ========================== =======================================================
code                                  string                     A unique, alphanumeric identifier, also used in URLs
speakers                              list                       A list of speaker objects, e.g. ``[{"name": "Jane", "code": "ABCDEF", "biography": "", "avatar": ""}]``
title                                 string                     The submission's title
submission_type                       string                     The submission type (e.g. "talk", "workshop")
track                                 string                     The track this talk belongs to (e.g. "security", "design", or ``null``)
state                                 string                     The submission's state, one of "submitted", "accepted", "rejected", "confirmed"
abstract                              string                     The abstract, a short note of the submission's content
description                           string                     The description, a more expansive description of the submission's content
duration                              number                     The talk's duration in minutes, or ``null``
do_not_record                         boolean                    Indicates if the speaker consent to recordings of their talk
is_featured                           boolean                    Indicates if the talk is show in the schedule preview / sneak peek
content_locale                        string                     The language the submission is in, e.g. "en" or "de"
slot                                  object                     An object with the scheduling details, e.g. ``{"start": …, "end": …, "room": "R101"}`` if they exist.
slot_count                            number                     How often this submission may be scheduled.
image                                 string                     The submission image URL
answers                               list                       The question answers given by the speakers. Available if the requesting user has organiser permissions.
===================================== ========================== =======================================================

Endpoints
---------

.. http:get:: /api/events/{event}/submissions

   Returns a list of all submissions the authenticated user/token has access to, or
   all confirmed, publicly scheduled submissions for unauthenticated users.
   For a list of accepted or confirmed submissions, authenticated users may choose
   to use the ``/api/events/{event}/talks`` endpoint instead.

   **Example request**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      GET /api/events/sampleconf/submissions HTTP/1.1
      Accept: application/json, text/javascript

   **Example response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Vary: Accept
      Content-Type: application/json

      {
        "count": 1,
        "next": null,
        "previous": null,
        "results": [
          {
            "code": "ABCDE",
            "speakers": [{"name": "Jane", "code": "DEFAB", "biography": "A speaker", "avatar": "avatar.png"}],
            "title": "A talk",
            "submission_type": "talk",
            "state": "confirmed",
            "abstract": "A good talk.",
            "description": "I will expand upon the properties of the talk, primarily its high quality.",
            "duration": 30,
            "do_not_record": true,
            "is_featured": false,
            "content_locale": "en",
            "slot": {
              "start": "2017-12-27T10:00:00Z",
              "end": "2017-12-27T10:30:00Z",
              "room": "R101"
            },
            "image": "submission.png",
            "answers": [
              {
                "id": 1,
                "question": {"id": 1, "question": {"en": "How much do you like green, on a scale from 1-10?"}, "required": false, "target": "submission", "options": []},
                "answer": "11",
                "answer_file": null,
                "submission": "ABCDE",
                "person": null,
                "options": []
              }
             ]
          }
        ]
      }

   :param event: The ``slug`` field of the event to fetch
   :query page: The page number in case of a multi-page result set, default is 1
   :query q: Search through submissions by title and speaker name
   :query submission_type: Filter submissions by submission type
   :query state: Filter submission by state

.. http:get:: /api/events/(event)/submissions/{code}

   Returns information on one event, identified by its slug.

   **Example request**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      GET /api/events/sampleconf/submissions/ABCDE HTTP/1.1
      Accept: application/json, text/javascript

   **Example response**:

   .. sourcecode:: http

      HTTP/1.1 200 OK
      Vary: Accept
      Content-Type: application/json

      {
        "code": "ABCDE",
        "speakers": [{"name": "Jane", "code": "DEFAB", "biography": "A speaker", "avatar": "avatar.png"}],
        "title": "A talk",
        "submission_type": "talk",
        "state": "confirmed",
        "abstract": "A good talk.",
        "description": "I will expand upon the properties of the talk, primarily its high quality.",
        "duration": 30,
        "do_not_record": true,
        "is_featured": false,
        "content_locale": "en",
        "slot": {
          "start": "2017-12-27T10:00:00Z",
          "end": "2017-12-27T10:30:00Z",
          "room": "R101"
        },
        "image": "submission.png",
        "answers": [
          {
            "id": 1,
            "question": {"id": 1, "question": {"en": "How much do you like green, on a scale from 1-10?"}, "required": false, "target": "submission", "options": []},
            "answer": "11",
            "answer_file": null,
            "submission": "ABCDE",
            "person": null,
            "options": []
          }
         ]
      }

   :param event: The ``slug`` field of the event to fetch
   :param code: The ``code`` field of the submission to fetch
   :statuscode 200: no error
   :statuscode 401: Authentication failure
   :statuscode 403: The requested event does not exist **or** you have no permission to view it.
