README.rst, before:

pretalx |logo|
==============

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/pretalx/pretalx.svg
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/pretalx/pretalx
   :alt: Continuous integration

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/pretalx.svg
   :target: https://docs.pretalx.org/en/latest/
   :alt: Documentation

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/pretalx/pretalx.svg?colorB=1c4a3b
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/pretalx/pretalx
   :alt: Coverage

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pretalx.svg?colorB=1c4a3b
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pretalx
   :alt: PyPI

`pretalx` is a conference planning tool focused on providing the best
experience for organisers, speakers, reviewers, and attendees alike.  It
handles the submission process with a configurable Call for Participation, the
reviewing and selection of submissions, and the scheduling and release
handling. After the event, `pretalx` allows speakers to receive feedback,
upload their slides, and organisers to embed recordings.

Read our extensive `feature list`_ in our docs to get a better idea of what
`pretalx` can do for you, but it probably involves everything you'll need to
curate submissions and contents for a conference with up to 200 talks.

You can host pretalx yourself, as detailed in our `administrator documentation`_,
or use our public instance at `pretalx.com`_.

Project status
--------------
`pretalx` is under `active development`_. It supports everything required for
talk submission, speaker communication, and scheduling. You can see our
supported features in the `feature list`_ in our documentation, and our planned
features in our open issues_.
`pretalx` has regular releases – you can download the latest releases with
their respective changelogs on GitHub_ or install pretalx via PyPI_.

Previous conferences using pretalx include:

- `EasterHegg 2019`_
- `PrivacyWeek 2018`_
- `hack.lu 2018`_
- `DjangoCon 2018`_
- `OsmoDevCon 2018`_
- `GPN 2018`_
- `EasterHegg 2018`_
- `TROOPERS 2018`_
- `MRMCD`_ (2017, 2018)

Note
  If you use pretalx for your event, please tell us about it!

Contributing
------------
If you want to contribute to pretalx, please choose an issue and comment on it
if anything is unclear. If you find bugs you want to fix yourself, please also
open an issue for documentation purposes.

Check our `developer documentation`_ on how to set up pretalx and get started
on development. Please bear in mind that our Code of Conduct applies to the
complete contribution process.

License
-------
We publish `pretalx` under the terms of the Apache License. See the LICENSE
file for further information and the complete license text. The licenses of all
dependencies are documented in the `DEPENDENCIES.rst`_ file.

The primary maintainer of this project is Tobias Kunze <r@rixx.de>.
See the CONTRIBUTORS file for a list of all the awesome folks who contributed
to this project.


.. |logo| image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pretalx/pretalx/master/assets/favicon-32x32.png
   :alt: pretalx logo
   :target: https://pretalx.com
.. _issues: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/issues/
.. _feature list: https://pretalx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html
.. _developer documentation: https://pretalx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer/index.html
.. _administrator documentation: https://pretalx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/administrator/index.html
.. _pretalx.com: https://pretalx.com/
.. _active development: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/pulse
.. _GitHub: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/release/
.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pretalx
.. _DEPENDENCIES.rst: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/blob/master/DEPENDENCIES.rst

.. _MRMCD: https://talks.mrmcd.net/
.. _TROOPERS 2018: https://cfp.ernw-insight.de/tr18/cfp
.. _EasterHegg 2018: https://pretalx.eh18.easterhegg.eu/eh18/schedule/
.. _GPN 2018: https://pretalx.entropia.de/gpn18/
.. _OsmoDevCon 2018: https://pretalx.sysmocom.de/osmodevcon2018/schedule/
.. _DjangoCon Europe 2018: https://2018.djangocontent.eu/hd/schedule/
.. _hack.lu 2018: https://cfp.hack.lu/hacklu18/
.. _DjangoCon 2018: https://2018.djangocon.eu
.. _PrivacyWeek 2018: https://privacyweek.at/
.. _EasterHegg 2019: https://eh19.easterhegg.eu/

Commit message:

explain Python 3.5 compatibility in readme

README.rst, after:

Pretalx for Python 3.5
======================

This fork is a backport of Pretalx on Python 3.5 because Pretalx makes usage of
f-strigs ([PEP 498](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0498/)) and other
features only available in Python 3.6.

The following is the original Readme:

pretalx |logo|
==============

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/pretalx/pretalx.svg
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/pretalx/pretalx
   :alt: Continuous integration

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/readthedocs/pretalx.svg
   :target: https://docs.pretalx.org/en/latest/
   :alt: Documentation

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/pretalx/pretalx.svg?colorB=1c4a3b
   :target: https://codecov.io/gh/pretalx/pretalx
   :alt: Coverage

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pretalx.svg?colorB=1c4a3b
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pretalx
   :alt: PyPI

`pretalx` is a conference planning tool focused on providing the best
experience for organisers, speakers, reviewers, and attendees alike.  It
handles the submission process with a configurable Call for Participation, the
reviewing and selection of submissions, and the scheduling and release
handling. After the event, `pretalx` allows speakers to receive feedback,
upload their slides, and organisers to embed recordings.

Read our extensive `feature list`_ in our docs to get a better idea of what
`pretalx` can do for you, but it probably involves everything you'll need to
curate submissions and contents for a conference with up to 200 talks.

You can host pretalx yourself, as detailed in our `administrator documentation`_,
or use our public instance at `pretalx.com`_.

Project status
--------------
`pretalx` is under `active development`_. It supports everything required for
talk submission, speaker communication, and scheduling. You can see our
supported features in the `feature list`_ in our documentation, and our planned
features in our open issues_.
`pretalx` has regular releases – you can download the latest releases with
their respective changelogs on GitHub_ or install pretalx via PyPI_.

Previous conferences using pretalx include:

- `EasterHegg 2019`_
- `PrivacyWeek 2018`_
- `hack.lu 2018`_
- `DjangoCon 2018`_
- `OsmoDevCon 2018`_
- `GPN 2018`_
- `EasterHegg 2018`_
- `TROOPERS 2018`_
- `MRMCD`_ (2017, 2018)

Note
  If you use pretalx for your event, please tell us about it!

Contributing
------------
If you want to contribute to pretalx, please choose an issue and comment on it
if anything is unclear. If you find bugs you want to fix yourself, please also
open an issue for documentation purposes.

Check our `developer documentation`_ on how to set up pretalx and get started
on development. Please bear in mind that our Code of Conduct applies to the
complete contribution process.

License
-------
We publish `pretalx` under the terms of the Apache License. See the LICENSE
file for further information and the complete license text. The licenses of all
dependencies are documented in the `DEPENDENCIES.rst`_ file.

The primary maintainer of this project is Tobias Kunze <r@rixx.de>.
See the CONTRIBUTORS file for a list of all the awesome folks who contributed
to this project.


.. |logo| image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pretalx/pretalx/master/assets/favicon-32x32.png
   :alt: pretalx logo
   :target: https://pretalx.com
.. _issues: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/issues/
.. _feature list: https://pretalx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html
.. _developer documentation: https://pretalx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer/index.html
.. _administrator documentation: https://pretalx.readthedocs.io/en/latest/administrator/index.html
.. _pretalx.com: https://pretalx.com/
.. _active development: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/pulse
.. _GitHub: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/release/
.. _PyPI: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pretalx
.. _DEPENDENCIES.rst: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx/blob/master/DEPENDENCIES.rst

.. _MRMCD: https://talks.mrmcd.net/
.. _TROOPERS 2018: https://cfp.ernw-insight.de/tr18/cfp
.. _EasterHegg 2018: https://pretalx.eh18.easterhegg.eu/eh18/schedule/
.. _GPN 2018: https://pretalx.entropia.de/gpn18/
.. _OsmoDevCon 2018: https://pretalx.sysmocom.de/osmodevcon2018/schedule/
.. _DjangoCon Europe 2018: https://2018.djangocontent.eu/hd/schedule/
.. _hack.lu 2018: https://cfp.hack.lu/hacklu18/
.. _DjangoCon 2018: https://2018.djangocon.eu
.. _PrivacyWeek 2018: https://privacyweek.at/
.. _EasterHegg 2019: https://eh19.easterhegg.eu/
