doc/administrator/installation.rst, before:

.. _installation:

Installation
============

This guide will help you to install pretalx on a Linux distribution, as long as
the prerequisites are present.

We also provide an `Ansible role`_ that follows this guide, in case you
already have an Ansible-based setup. If you prefer a docker setup, please use
our `docker-compose setup`_.

Step 0: Prerequisites
---------------------

Please set up the following systems beforehand, we'll not explain them here (but see these links for
external installation guides):

* **Python 3.6 or 3.7** and a ``pip`` to match. You can use ``python -V`` and ``pip3 -V`` to check.
* An SMTP server to send out mails
* An HTTP reverse proxy, e.g. `nginx`_ or Apache to allow HTTPS connections
* A `MySQL`_ (5.6 or higher) or `PostgreSQL`_ (9.4 or higher) database server (you can use SQLite, but we strongly recommend not to run SQLite in production)
* A `redis`_ server

We also recommend that you use a firewall, although this is not a pretalx-specific recommendation.
If you're new to Linux and firewalls, we recommend that you start with `ufw`_.

.. note:: Please do not run pretalx without HTTPS encryption. You'll handle user data and thanks
          to `Let's Encrypt`_, SSL certificates are free these days. We also *do not* provide
          support for HTTP-exclusive installations except for evaluation purposes.

Step 1: Unix user
-----------------

As we do not want to run pretalx as root, we first create a new unprivileged user::

    # adduser pretalx --disabled-password --home /var/pretalx

In this guide, all code lines prepended with a ``#`` symbol are commands that
you need to execute on your server as ``root`` user (e.g. using ``sudo``); you
should run all lines prepended with a ``$`` symbol as the unprivileged user.


Step 2: Database setup
----------------------

Having the database server installed, we still need a database and a database
user. We recommend using PostgreSQL, although pretalx also works (and is tested
against) MariaDB and SQLite.  For databases other than PostgreSQL, please refer
to their documentation on how to set up a database and a database user with the
appropriate permissions::

  # sudo -u postgres createuser pretalx -P
  # sudo -u postgres createdb -O pretalx pretalx

When using MySQL, make sure you set the character set of the database to ``utf8mb4``, e.g. like this::

    mysql > CREATE DATABASE pretix DEFAULT CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 DEFAULT COLLATE utf8mb4_unic


Step 3: Package dependencies
----------------------------

To build and run pretalx, you might need local system packages beyond the
dependencies mentioned above.  Due to the impossibility of maintaining an up to
date list for all Linux flavours out there, we sadly can't provide one here.

If you're running Ubuntu or a similar system, you'll probably want to install
packages like ``build-essential``, ``libssl-dev``, and ``gettext``, plus
``libmysqlclient-dev`` if you use MariaDB.

Please note that pretalx requires Python 3.6 or Python 3.7 – if your operating
system doesn't come with one of those Python versions, please either find an
alternative source for your system, or build it from source.

.. note::
   You may need to replace all following mentions of ``pip`` with ``pip3.6``.


Step 4: Configuration
---------------------

We now create a configuration directory and configuration file for pretalx::

    # mkdir /etc/pretalx
    # touch /etc/pretalx/pretalx.cfg
    # chown -R pretalx:pretalx /etc/pretalx/
    # chmod 0600 /etc/pretalx/pretalx.cfg

Fill the configuration file ``/etc/pretalx/pretalx.cfg`` with the following content (adjusted to your environment):

.. literalinclude:: ../../src/pretalx.example.cfg
   :language: ini

Check out :ref:`configure` for details on the available configuration options.

Step 5: Installation
--------------------

Now we will install pretalx itself. Please execute the following steps as the ``pretalx`` user. We will
install all Python packages, including pretalx, in the user's Python environment, so that your global Python
installation will not know of them::

    $ pip install --user -U pip setuptools wheel pretalx gunicorn

pretalx works your choice of database backends – we recommend using
PostgreSQL, but MySQL, SQLite, and Oracle work as well. Use the following
command to install the database driver (unless you use SQLite, which has its
driver built in):

+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| Database   | pip package                               |
+============+===========================================+
| PostgreSQL | ``pip install --user -U psycopg2-binary`` |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| MySQL      | ``pip install --user -U mysqlclient``     |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| Oracle     | ``pip install --user -U cx_Oracle``       |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+

We also need to create a data directory::

    $ mkdir -p /var/pretalx/data/media

We compile static files and translation data and create the database structure::

    $ python -m pretalx migrate
    $ python -m pretalx rebuild

Now, create a user with administrator rights, an organiser and a team by running::

    $ python -m pretalx init

Step 6: Starting pretalx as a service
-------------------------------------

We recommend starting pretalx using systemd to make sure it starts up after a reboot. Create a file
named ``/etc/systemd/system/pretalx-web.service`` with the following content::

    [Unit]
    Description=pretalx web service
    After=network.target

    [Service]
    User=pretalx
    Group=pretalx
    WorkingDirectory=/var/pretalx/.local/lib/python3.6/site-packages/pretalx
    ExecStart=/var/pretalx/.local/bin/gunicorn pretalx.wsgi \
                          --name pretalx --workers 4 \
                          --max-requests 1200  --max-requests-jitter 50 \
                          --log-level=info --bind=127.0.0.1:8345
    Restart=on-failure

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target

If you decide to use Celery (giving you asynchronous execution for long-running
tasks), you'll also need a second service
``/etc/systemd/system/pretalx-worker.service`` with the following content::

    [Unit]
    Description=pretalx background worker
    After=network.target

    [Service]
    User=pretalx
    Group=pretalx
    WorkingDirectory=/var/pretalx/.local/lib/python3.6/site-packages/pretalx
    ExecStart=/var/pretalx/.local/bin/celery -A pretalx.celery_app worker -l info
    WorkingDirectory=/var/pretalx
    Restart=on-failure

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target

You can now run the following commands to enable and start the services::

    # systemctl daemon-reload
    # systemctl enable pretalx-web pretalx-worker
    # systemctl start pretalx-web pretalx-worker

Step 7: SSL
-----------

The following snippet is an example on how to configure a nginx proxy for pretalx::

    server {
        listen 80 default_server;
        listen [::]:80 ipv6only=on default_server;
        server_name pretalx.mydomain.com;
    }
    server {
        listen 443 default_server;
        listen [::]:443 ipv6only=on default_server;
        server_name pretalx.mydomain.com;

        ssl on;
        ssl_certificate /path/to/cert.chain.pem;
        ssl_certificate_key /path/to/key.pem;

        add_header Referrer-Options same-origin;
        add_header X-Content-Type-Options nosniff;

        location / {
            proxy_pass http://localhost:8345/;
            proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
            proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto https;
            proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
        }

        location /media/ {
            alias /var/pretalx/data/media/;
            add_header Content-Disposition 'attachment; filename="$1"';
            expires 7d;
            access_log off;
        }

        location /static/ {
            alias /path/to/static.dist/;
            access_log off;
            expires 365d;
            add_header Cache-Control "public";
        }
    }

We recommend reading about setting `strong encryption settings`_ for your web server.

You've made it! You should now be able to reach pretalx at https://pretalx.yourdomain.com/orga/ and log in as
the administrator you configured above. You can now create an event, and off you go!

Step 8: Check the installation
-------------------------------

You can make sure the web interface is up and look for any issues with::

    # journalctl -u pretalx-web

If you use Celery, you can do the same for the worker processes (for example in
case the emails are not sent)::

    # journalctl -u pretalx-worker

In the start-up output, pretalx also lists its logging directory, which is also
a good place to look for the reason for issues.

Next Steps
----------

Check out :ref:`configure` for details on the available configuration options.

Have a look at our :ref:`maintenance` documentation to read about updates, backups,
and monitoring.

.. _Ansible role: https://github.com/pretalx/ansible-pretalx
.. _nginx: https://botleg.com/stories/https-with-lets-encrypt-and-nginx/
.. _Let's Encrypt: https://letsencrypt.org/
.. _MySQL: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/linux-installation-apt-repo.html
.. _PostgreSQL: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/
.. _redis: https://redis.io/documentation
.. _ufw: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncomplicated_Firewall
.. _strong encryption settings: https://mozilla.github.io/server-side-tls/ssl-config-generator/
.. _docker-compose setup: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx-docker

Commit message:

docs: make sure the pretalx-worker is properly installed
This makes using Celery not an optional "if you decide to" but,
as the installation is otherwise not working out of the box, a
requirement.

If this is actually optional and advanced users can use pretalx
without,I would recommend splitting optional things into a
separate document for those users.

doc/administrator/installation.rst, after:

.. _installation:

Installation
============

This guide will help you to install pretalx on a Linux distribution, as long as
the prerequisites are present.

We also provide an `Ansible role`_ that follows this guide, in case you
already have an Ansible-based setup. If you prefer a docker setup, please use
our `docker-compose setup`_.

Step 0: Prerequisites
---------------------

Please set up the following systems beforehand, we'll not explain them here (but see these links for
external installation guides):

* **Python 3.6 or 3.7** and a ``pip`` to match. You can use ``python -V`` and ``pip3 -V`` to check.
* An SMTP server to send out mails
* An HTTP reverse proxy, e.g. `nginx`_ or Apache to allow HTTPS connections
* A `MySQL`_ (5.6 or higher) or `PostgreSQL`_ (9.4 or higher) database server (you can use SQLite, but we strongly recommend not to run SQLite in production)
* A `redis`_ server

We also recommend that you use a firewall, although this is not a pretalx-specific recommendation.
If you're new to Linux and firewalls, we recommend that you start with `ufw`_.

.. note:: Please do not run pretalx without HTTPS encryption. You'll handle user data and thanks
          to `Let's Encrypt`_, SSL certificates are free these days. We also *do not* provide
          support for HTTP-exclusive installations except for evaluation purposes.

Step 1: Unix user
-----------------

As we do not want to run pretalx as root, we first create a new unprivileged user::

    # adduser pretalx --disabled-password --home /var/pretalx

In this guide, all code lines prepended with a ``#`` symbol are commands that
you need to execute on your server as ``root`` user (e.g. using ``sudo``); you
should run all lines prepended with a ``$`` symbol as the unprivileged user.


Step 2: Database setup
----------------------

Having the database server installed, we still need a database and a database
user. We recommend using PostgreSQL, although pretalx also works (and is tested
against) MariaDB and SQLite.  For databases other than PostgreSQL, please refer
to their documentation on how to set up a database and a database user with the
appropriate permissions::

  # sudo -u postgres createuser pretalx -P
  # sudo -u postgres createdb -O pretalx pretalx

When using MySQL, make sure you set the character set of the database to ``utf8mb4``, e.g. like this::

    mysql > CREATE DATABASE pretix DEFAULT CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 DEFAULT COLLATE utf8mb4_unic


Step 3: Package dependencies
----------------------------

To build and run pretalx, you might need local system packages beyond the
dependencies mentioned above.  Due to the impossibility of maintaining an up to
date list for all Linux flavours out there, we sadly can't provide one here.

If you're running Ubuntu or a similar system, you'll probably want to install
packages like ``build-essential``, ``libssl-dev``, and ``gettext``, plus
``libmysqlclient-dev`` if you use MariaDB.

Please note that pretalx requires Python 3.6 or Python 3.7 – if your operating
system doesn't come with one of those Python versions, please either find an
alternative source for your system, or build it from source.

.. note::
   You may need to replace all following mentions of ``pip`` with ``pip3.6``.


Step 4: Configuration
---------------------

We now create a configuration directory and configuration file for pretalx::

    # mkdir /etc/pretalx
    # touch /etc/pretalx/pretalx.cfg
    # chown -R pretalx:pretalx /etc/pretalx/
    # chmod 0600 /etc/pretalx/pretalx.cfg

Fill the configuration file ``/etc/pretalx/pretalx.cfg`` with the following content (adjusted to your environment):

.. literalinclude:: ../../src/pretalx.example.cfg
   :language: ini

Check out :ref:`configure` for details on the available configuration options.

Step 5: Installation
--------------------

Now we will install pretalx itself. Please execute the following steps as the ``pretalx`` user. We will
install all Python packages, including pretalx, in the user's Python environment, so that your global Python
installation will not know of them::

    $ pip install --user -U pip setuptools wheel pretalx gunicorn

pretalx works your choice of database backends – we recommend using
PostgreSQL, but MySQL, SQLite, and Oracle work as well. Use the following
command to install the database driver (unless you use SQLite, which has its
driver built in):

+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| Database   | pip package                               |
+============+===========================================+
| PostgreSQL | ``pip install --user -U psycopg2-binary`` |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| MySQL      | ``pip install --user -U mysqlclient``     |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| Oracle     | ``pip install --user -U cx_Oracle``       |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+

We also need to create a data directory::

    $ mkdir -p /var/pretalx/data/media

We compile static files and translation data and create the database structure::

    $ python -m pretalx migrate
    $ python -m pretalx rebuild

Now, create a user with administrator rights, an organiser and a team by running::

    $ python -m pretalx init

Step 6: Starting pretalx as a service
-------------------------------------

We recommend starting pretalx using systemd to make sure it starts up after a reboot. Create a file
named ``/etc/systemd/system/pretalx-web.service`` with the following content::

    [Unit]
    Description=pretalx web service
    After=network.target

    [Service]
    User=pretalx
    Group=pretalx
    WorkingDirectory=/var/pretalx/.local/lib/python3.6/site-packages/pretalx
    ExecStart=/var/pretalx/.local/bin/gunicorn pretalx.wsgi \
                          --name pretalx --workers 4 \
                          --max-requests 1200  --max-requests-jitter 50 \
                          --log-level=info --bind=127.0.0.1:8345
    Restart=on-failure

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target

For asynchronous execution of long-running tasks via Celery, such as outgoing mail),
you'll also need a second service ``/etc/systemd/system/pretalx-worker.service``
with the following content::

    [Unit]
    Description=pretalx background worker
    After=network.target

    [Service]
    User=pretalx
    Group=pretalx
    WorkingDirectory=/var/pretalx/.local/lib/python3.6/site-packages/pretalx
    ExecStart=/var/pretalx/.local/bin/celery -A pretalx.celery_app worker -l info
    WorkingDirectory=/var/pretalx
    Restart=on-failure

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target

You can now run the following commands to enable and start the services::

    # systemctl daemon-reload
    # systemctl enable pretalx-web pretalx-worker
    # systemctl start pretalx-web pretalx-worker

Step 7: SSL
-----------

The following snippet is an example on how to configure a nginx proxy for pretalx::

    server {
        listen 80 default_server;
        listen [::]:80 ipv6only=on default_server;
        server_name pretalx.mydomain.com;
    }
    server {
        listen 443 default_server;
        listen [::]:443 ipv6only=on default_server;
        server_name pretalx.mydomain.com;

        ssl on;
        ssl_certificate /path/to/cert.chain.pem;
        ssl_certificate_key /path/to/key.pem;

        add_header Referrer-Options same-origin;
        add_header X-Content-Type-Options nosniff;

        location / {
            proxy_pass http://localhost:8345/;
            proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
            proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto https;
            proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
        }

        location /media/ {
            alias /var/pretalx/data/media/;
            add_header Content-Disposition 'attachment; filename="$1"';
            expires 7d;
            access_log off;
        }

        location /static/ {
            alias /path/to/static.dist/;
            access_log off;
            expires 365d;
            add_header Cache-Control "public";
        }
    }

We recommend reading about setting `strong encryption settings`_ for your web server.

You've made it! You should now be able to reach pretalx at https://pretalx.yourdomain.com/orga/ and log in as
the administrator you configured above. You can now create an event, and off you go!

Step 8: Check the installation
-------------------------------

You can make sure the web interface is up and look for any issues with::

    # journalctl -u pretalx-web

For the Celery worker you can do the same for the worker processes (for example in
case outgoing mails are not sent)::

    # journalctl -u pretalx-worker

In the start-up output, pretalx also lists its logging directory, which is also
a good place to look for the reason for issues.

Next Steps
----------

Check out :ref:`configure` for details on the available configuration options.

Have a look at our :ref:`maintenance` documentation to read about updates, backups,
and monitoring.

.. _Ansible role: https://github.com/pretalx/ansible-pretalx
.. _nginx: https://botleg.com/stories/https-with-lets-encrypt-and-nginx/
.. _Let's Encrypt: https://letsencrypt.org/
.. _MySQL: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/linux-installation-apt-repo.html
.. _PostgreSQL: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/
.. _redis: https://redis.io/documentation
.. _ufw: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncomplicated_Firewall
.. _strong encryption settings: https://mozilla.github.io/server-side-tls/ssl-config-generator/
.. _docker-compose setup: https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx-docker
